README.md, before:

# Wolox CI

This a Jenkins library built to make it easier for us at Wolox to configure pipelines without necessarily knowing about Jenkinsfile syntax.
All our projects are built using a Dockerfile

When using this library, your Jenkinsfile should look something like this:

```
@Library('wolox-ci') _

node {

  checkout scm

  woloxCi('.woloxci/config.yml');
}
```

It basically loads the library, clones the target repository and calls `woloxCi` to make its magic.
As an argument, `woloxCi` receives the path to a configuration yaml file.
This file looks something like this:

```
config:
  dockerfile: .woloxci/Dockerfile
  project_name: some-rails-project

services:
  - mssql

steps:
  analysis:
    - bundle exec rubocop -R app spec --format simple
    - bundle exec rubycritic --path ./analysis --minimum-score 80 --no-browser
  setup_db:
    - bundle exec rails db:create
    - bundle exec rails db:schema:load
  test:
    - bundle exec rspec
  security:
    - bundle exec brakeman --exit-on-error
  audit:
    - bundle audit check --update


environment:
  RAILS_ENV: test
  GIT_COMMITTER_NAME: a
  GIT_COMMITTER_EMAIL: b
  LANG: C.UTF-8

timeout: 600
```

This file has different sections:

## Configuration

The section under the `config` label defines some basic configuration for this project:
1. The dockerfile that contains the image for the project to run.
2. The project name.

## Services

This section lists the project's dependencies. Each section will define and expose some environment variables that might be needed by the application:

### Microsoft SQL

When listing `mssql` as a service, this will build a docker image from [`microsoft/mssql-server-linux`](https://hub.docker.com/r/microsoft/mssql-server-linux/) exposing the following environment variables:

1. DB_USERNAME
2. DB_PASSWORD
3. DB_HOST
4. DB_PORT

### PostgreSQL

When listing `postgres` as a service, this will build a docker image from [`postgres`](https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres/) exposing the following environment variables:

1. DB_USERNAME
2. DB_PASSWORD
3. DB_HOST
4. DB_PORT

### Redis

When listing `redis` as a service, this will build a docker image from [`redis`](https://hub.docker.com/_/redis/) exposing the following environment variables:

1. REDIS_URL: the redis url that looks like this `redis://redis`

### MySQL

When listing `mysql` as a service, this will build a docker image from [`mysql`](https://hub.docker.com/_/mysql/) exposing the following environment variables:

1. DB_USERNAME
2. DB_PASSWORD
3. DB_HOST
4. DB_PORT

### MongoDB

When listing `mongo` as a service, this will build a docker image from [`mongo`](https://hub.docker.com/_/mongo/) exposing the following environment variables:

1. DB_USERNAME
2. DB_PASSWORD
3. DB_HOST
4. DB_PORT

### Elasticsearch

When listing `elasticsearch:6.4.0` as a service (it's mandatory specify the image version), this will build a docker image from [`elasticsearch`](https://www.docker.elastic.co/) exposing the following environment variables:

1. ELASTICSEARCH_URL

## Steps

This section lets you define the steps you need to build your project. Each level inside the `steps` section is a stage in the Jenkins pipeline and each item in the stage is a command to run. In the case above, there are 5 stages named:

1. analysis
2. setup_db
3. test
4. security
5. audit


The analysis stage, for example, runs the following commands:

1. `bundle exec rubocop -R app spec --format simple`
2. `bundle exec rubycritic --path ./analysis --minimum-score 80 --no-browser`


## Environment

This section lets you set up custom environment variables. Each item inside this section defines a variable with its value.

## Timeout

This section lets you set up a custom timeout in seconds. The default is 600 (10 minutes).

Commit message:

Add Jenkins Env vars passing to Docker capability
Through jenkinsEnvironment section in the YAML file, you can now define
what env vars from Jenkins should be passed to the Docker executions.

Also, some SCM env vars are being passed down directly now.

README.md, after:

# Wolox CI

This a Jenkins library built to make it easier for us at Wolox to configure pipelines without necessarily knowing about Jenkinsfile syntax.
All our projects are built using a Dockerfile

When using this library, your Jenkinsfile should look something like this:

```
@Library('wolox-ci') _

node {

  checkout scm

  woloxCi('.woloxci/config.yml');
}
```

It basically loads the library, clones the target repository and calls `woloxCi` to make its magic.
As an argument, `woloxCi` receives the path to a configuration yaml file.
This file looks something like this:

```
config:
  dockerfile: .woloxci/Dockerfile
  project_name: some-rails-project

services:
  - mssql

steps:
  analysis:
    - bundle exec rubocop -R app spec --format simple
    - bundle exec rubycritic --path ./analysis --minimum-score 80 --no-browser
  setup_db:
    - bundle exec rails db:create
    - bundle exec rails db:schema:load
  test:
    - bundle exec rspec
  security:
    - bundle exec brakeman --exit-on-error
  audit:
    - bundle audit check --update


environment:
  RAILS_ENV: test
  GIT_COMMITTER_NAME: a
  GIT_COMMITTER_EMAIL: b
  LANG: C.UTF-8

jenkinsEnvironment:
  - JENKINS_URL

timeout: 600
```

This file has different sections:

## Configuration

The section under the `config` label defines some basic configuration for this project:
1. The dockerfile that contains the image for the project to run.
2. The project name.

## Services

This section lists the project's dependencies. Each section will define and expose some environment variables that might be needed by the application:

### Microsoft SQL

When listing `mssql` as a service, this will build a docker image from [`microsoft/mssql-server-linux`](https://hub.docker.com/r/microsoft/mssql-server-linux/) exposing the following environment variables:

1. DB_USERNAME
2. DB_PASSWORD
3. DB_HOST
4. DB_PORT

### PostgreSQL

When listing `postgres` as a service, this will build a docker image from [`postgres`](https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres/) exposing the following environment variables:

1. DB_USERNAME
2. DB_PASSWORD
3. DB_HOST
4. DB_PORT

### Redis

When listing `redis` as a service, this will build a docker image from [`redis`](https://hub.docker.com/_/redis/) exposing the following environment variables:

1. REDIS_URL: the redis url that looks like this `redis://redis`

### MySQL

When listing `mysql` as a service, this will build a docker image from [`mysql`](https://hub.docker.com/_/mysql/) exposing the following environment variables:

1. DB_USERNAME
2. DB_PASSWORD
3. DB_HOST
4. DB_PORT

### MongoDB

When listing `mongo` as a service, this will build a docker image from [`mongo`](https://hub.docker.com/_/mongo/) exposing the following environment variables:

1. DB_USERNAME
2. DB_PASSWORD
3. DB_HOST
4. DB_PORT

### Elasticsearch

When listing `elasticsearch:6.4.0` as a service (it's mandatory specify the image version), this will build a docker image from [`elasticsearch`](https://www.docker.elastic.co/) exposing the following environment variables:

1. ELASTICSEARCH_URL

## Steps

This section lets you define the steps you need to build your project. Each level inside the `steps` section is a stage in the Jenkins pipeline and each item in the stage is a command to run. In the case above, there are 5 stages named:

1. analysis
2. setup_db
3. test
4. security
5. audit


The analysis stage, for example, runs the following commands:

1. `bundle exec rubocop -R app spec --format simple`
2. `bundle exec rubycritic --path ./analysis --minimum-score 80 --no-browser`


## Environment

This section lets you set up custom environment variables. Each item inside this section defines a variable with its value.

## Jenkins Environment

This section lets you define what Jenkins environment values you want to pass to the docker image, i.e. JENKINS_URL.
Bear in mind that, for convenience, Wolox CI already passes the following Jenkins Environment Variables to the Docker image by default:

1. BUILD_ID
2. BRANCH_NAME
3. CHANGE_ID
4. CHANGE_BRANCH (if job is PR-triggered)
5. CHANGE_TARGET (if job is PR-triggered)

## Timeout

This section lets you set up a custom timeout in seconds. The default is 600 (10 minutes).
